# Data Archiving Overview

Business data of huge size and with lower access frequency can be archived. EnOS Data Connector supports archiving data and synchronizing the archived data to target database and in specified directories, thus achieving data backup.

## Features

Features of the Data Connector are as follows:

**Archiving real-time data and offline data**

EnOS Data Connector support archiving both real-time data ingested from devices or generated by stream processing jobs of specified models and data integrated from the offline message channel.

**Setting properties of archived files**

You can set properties of archived files, including file type, encoding, column delimiter, compression, and size limit, based on your data usage scenarios. In this way, the archived files will be ready for future development and analysis.

**Setting storage system and path**

The archived files will be synchronized to the specified storage system (BLOB or HDFS) and stored in the configured path, thus achieving data backup.

<!--

**Customized archiving cycles**

You set customized data archiving cycles (1 hour ~ 24 hours) based on the data amount and business requirements on data archiving efficiency. The longer the archiving cycle is, the more data you can be processed in the cycle, and the number of small files caused by data latency can be significantly reduced.

-->

## Usage Limit

When using the Data Connector, the following usage limit should be noted:

**Number of supported archiving jobs**

At most 5 data archiving jobs can be created for an organization.

**Start time of data archiving**

When a data archiving job is submitted, the system starts reading data from the specified message channel. However, if no data is cached in the archiving cycle when the archiving job is submitted, no archived file will be generated.

**Data retention in case of job failure**

The data retention time of the current message channel is 3 days by default. In case of job failure, data archiving jobs must be troubleshooted and restarted in time to avoid data loss. 